docs: RHIDP-1472 Adding GitLab OAuth as an authentication provider (#78)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/auth/proc-adding-gitlab-oauth-as-an-authentication-provider.adoc

[id='proc-adding-gitlab-oauth-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}']
= Adding GitLab OAuth as an authentication provider in {product}

The {product} `core-plugin-api` package includes a GitLab authentication provider that can authenticate users by using GitLab OAuth.

.Procedure

> . To set up in Gitlab the secrets that {product} required to communicate with Gitlab, create an OAuth Application.

Author: ```suggestion
. To allow {product} to authenticate with Gitlab, create an OAuth Application in Gitlab.
```

+
Go to https://gitlab.com/-/profile/applications[GitLab User settings > Applications], and click the *Add new application* button.

*Name*:: Enter your application name, such as `{product}`.
*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product}:
For local development::: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

> For a non-local deployment::: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a non-local deployment::: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
```
it should not point to backend port for rhdhd deployed in a production environment. It should point to frontend and that one is usually default one (https or HTTP) so we don't need to specify it here

> *** For local development: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
> *** For a non-local deployment: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: ```suggestion
For local development:: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
For a non-local deployment:: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
```

+
NOTE: Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure the URL has no trailing `/` after 'frame'.
.. Select the following *Scopes* from the list, and validate:
+
// NOTE: including here verbatim copy from Gitlab screen.

> `read_user`:: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
> Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
> `read_repository`:: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
> Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
> `write_repository`:: Grants read/write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
> `openid`:: Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect.
> Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
> `profile`:: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
> `email`:: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.
> +
> .. Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
`read_user`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`read_repository`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`write_repository`::: Grants read/write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
`openid`::: Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect.
Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
`profile`::: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
`email`::: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.

Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.
```

        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
        ## uncomment if using self-hosted GitLab
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com
        ## uncomment if using a custom redirect URI
        # callbackUrl: https://${BASE_URL}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame
----
+
The GitLab provider is a structure with these configuration keys:
+
`clientId`:: The *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as
`4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
`clientSecret`:: The *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.
`audience` (optional):: The base URL for the self-hosted GitLab instance, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.
`callbackUrl` (optional):: The URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as:
* For local development: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
* For a non-local deployment: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
+
NOTE: Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure the URL has no trailing `/` after 'frame'.

> . (Optionally) To enable the Gitlab provider for sign-in,

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/78/files#diff-ac84c51230e4999462622d1e6a25e1a32c3f1992a365b7a560ac6b439091d8fbR64

 

The optional step is currently not supported in RHDH because this change needs engineering effort. and there are some changes needed to be in product to support this optional changes.

 

 

For the community version this documentation is completely supported.

+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in {product-short} configuration (`app-config.yaml`).
+
Add the `gitlab` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration, and optionally, enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    gitlab:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID} # <1>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <3>
        # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <4>
# signInPage: gitlab # <5>
----
+
<1> Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as
`4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
<2> Enter the *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.
<3> Optionally, when using a self-hosted Gitlab: uncomment, and enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.

> <4> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: ```suggestion
<4> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`.
```

+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in {product-short} configuration (`app-config.yaml`).
+
Add the `gitlab` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration, and optionally, enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    gitlab:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID} # <1>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <3>
        # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <4>
# signInPage: gitlab # <5>
----
+
<1> Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as
`4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
<2> Enter the *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.
<3> Optionally, when using a self-hosted Gitlab: uncomment, and enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.

> <4> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as:
> * For local development: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
> * For a non-local deployment: `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: ```suggestion
<4> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
```

[id='proc-adding-gitlab-oauth-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}']
= Enabling the GitLab OAuth authentication provider

{product} includes a GitLab authentication provider that can authenticate users by using GitLab OAuth.

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Gitlab, create an OAuth Application in Gitlab.
+
Go to https://gitlab.com/-/profile/applications[GitLab User settings > Applications], and click the *Add new application* button.

*Name*:: Enter your application name, such as `{product-short}`.
*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}:
For local development::: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

> For a non-local deployment::: `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: @kadel Does it make sense to mention local development at all? I am deploying locally on OpenShift Local, and the URL is [backstage-developer-hub-rhdh-instance.apps-crc.testing/settings](https://backstage-developer-hub-rhdh-instance.apps-crc.testing/settings)

Reviewer: local in backstage context means running locally on your laptop. 
But this is good, we are primarily targeting production deployments on Kubernetes or OpenShift clusters, customers won't be running rhdh locally on their laptops directly form git repo.

It should be ok to remove all local development references.

> *Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}:
> For local development::: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`
> For a non-local deployment::: `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: ```suggestion
*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`.
```

Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`read_repository`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`write_repository`::: Grants read/write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
`openid`::: Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect.
Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
`profile`::: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
`email`::: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.
+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in {product-short} configuration (`app-config.yaml`).
+
Add the `gitlab` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration, and optionally, enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----

> auth:

Reviewer: yes, there are `auth` and `backend.auth` and they are different things :-)

`auth` is for setting up Authentification providers

`backend.auth` configures [Service to Service Auth](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/service-to-service-auth/)

For auth providers only the top-level `auth` key is relevant

  environment: development
  providers:
    gitlab:

>       development:

Reviewer: I know that this comes from the Backstage docs, and we have these other places of our documentation. But we should start using `production` instead `development` here. And we should also have  `environment: production`. The main target of our docs should be the production deployment

        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID} # <1>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <3>
        # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <4>
# signInPage: gitlab # <5>
----
+

> <1> Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as

Reviewer: Should we guide users toward using Kubernets Secrets to store those values, as it is done in https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.1/html/getting_started_with_red_hat_developer_hub/ref-rhdh-supported-configs_rhdh-getting-started#configuring-github-authentication

Or is safe to assume that they will know better than adding secrets directly into the config?

It might be nice if we have some generic section about how to handle secrets and just refer to it in places like here.

Author: Indeed.

We can have one secret handling multiple key/values, right?

`4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
<2> Enter the *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.
<3> Optionally, when using a self-hosted Gitlab: uncomment, and enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.
<4> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as:

> * For local development: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: @kadel Does it make sense to mention local development at all? I am deploying locally on OpenShift Local, and the URL is https://backstage-developer-hub-rhdh-instance.apps-crc.testing/settings

Reviewer: https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/78/files#r1540657644

Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`read_repository`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`write_repository`::: Grants read/write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
`openid`::: Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect.
Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
`profile`::: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
`email`::: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.
+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in the {product} configuration (`app-config.yaml`).
+
Add the `gitlab` provider configuration to your `app-config.yaml` under the root `auth` configuration, and edit the configuration keys:
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml]
----
auth:
  environment: development
  providers:
    gitlab:
      development:

>         clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID} <1>
>         clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET} <2>
>         ## Uncomment and define when using self-hosted GitLab:
>         # audience: https://gitlab.company.com <3>
>         ## Uncomment and define when using a custom redirect URI
>         # callbackUrl: https://${BASE_URL}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame <3>

Author: ```suggestion
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID} # <1>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>
        ## Uncomment and define when using self-hosted GitLab:
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <3>
        ## Uncomment and define when using a custom redirect URI
        # callbackUrl: https://${BASE_URL}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <4>
```

## Uncomment to use Gitlab for sign-in:

> # signInPage: gitlab <5>

Author: @kadel Is it correct this time?

----
<1> `clientId`:: The *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as
`4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
<2> `clientSecret`:: The *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.
<3> `audience` (optional):: When using a self-hosted Gitlab, enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.
<4> `callbackUrl` (optional):: Enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as:
* For local development: `pass:[http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

> * For a non-local deployment: `pass:[http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`

Author: @kadel @riginoommen Is it really optional? What is the default behavior?

Reviewer 2: I don't think think its optional call back URL is a Must

Reviewer 2: default befhaviour is provider redirect to the redirect URI

Author: Ack

[id='proc-adding-gitlab-oauth-as-an-authentication-provider_{context}']
= Enabling the GitLab OAuth authentication provider

{product} includes a GitLab authentication provider that can authenticate users by using GitLab OAuth.

.Prerequistes

* You configured {product-short} with a custom config map and secret.

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with Gitlab, create an OAuth Application in Gitlab.
+
Go to https://gitlab.com/-/profile/applications[GitLab User settings > Applications], and click the *Add new application* button.

*Name*:: Enter your application name, such as `{product-short}`.
*Redirect URI*:: Enter the backend authentication URI set in {product-short}, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`.
Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure the URL has no trailing `/` after 'frame'.

> *Scopes*:: Select the following scopes from the list, and validate:

Author: ``
```suggestion
*Scopes*:: Select the following scopes from the list and click *Save application*:
```

+
// NOTE: including here verbatim copy from Gitlab screen.
`read_user`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`read_repository`::: Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name.
Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
`write_repository`::: Grants read/write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
`openid`::: Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect.
Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
`profile`::: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
`email`::: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.
+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Add your Gitlab credentials in your {product-short} secrets.
+

> Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.
> +
> Add the following key/value pairs:

Author: ```suggestion
.. Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.
+
.. Add the following key/value pairs:
```

+
`AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as `4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
`AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
+
Edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
+

> In the `app-config-rhdh.yml` content, add the `gitlab` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:

Author: ```suggestion
In the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content, add the `gitlab` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:
```

+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----

> auth:

Author: Are we disallowing definition lists?

> auth:

Reviewer 3: Definition lists are fine, I just don't understand what makes this a definition list. What are we defining? These seem to be procedural steps. For instance,  _Edit your customer config map_ is an instruction and should therefore be a numbered step in the procedure. The AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT ID part seems like a definition, which is fine, but they are items in a list of key/value pairs and therefore need bullets.

  environment: production
  providers:
    gitlab:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <1>
        # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <2>
signInPage: gitlab # <3>
----
+

> <1> Optionally, when using a self-hosted Gitlab: uncomment, and enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as

Reviewer 3: I realize now that these fields are probably commented out by default so _uncomment_ makes sense and is totally fine to use

Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
`profile`::: Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
`email`::: Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.
+
Save the *Application ID* and *Secret* for the next step.

. Add your Gitlab credentials in your {product-short} secrets.
+
Edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`.
+
Add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the *Application ID* that you generated on GitLab, such as `4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`.
`AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the *Secret* that you generated on Gitlab, such as `gloas-f2c9c350759cc08346fbf94a476ae83c579c76dd629fc5eeef9dc21eedfe0475`.

. Set up the Gitlab authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
+
Edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
+
In the `app-config-rhdh.yml` content, add the `gitlab` provider configuration under the root `auth` configuration, and enable the `gitlab` provider for sign-in:
+

> .`app-config-rhdh` ConfigMap fragment
> [source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
> ----
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: ConfigMap
> metadata:
>   name: app-config-rhdh
> data:
>   app-config-rhdh.yaml: |
>     auth:
>       environment: production
>       providers:
>         gitlab:
>           production:
>             clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID}
>             clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
>             # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <1>
>             # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <2>
>     signInPage: gitlab # <3>
>     # [...]
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    gitlab:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com # <1>
        # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <2>
signInPage: gitlab # <3>
----
```

>             # callbackUrl: https://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # callbackUrl: https://{APP_FQDN}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame # <2>          
```
to make it align with ho it is defined in other documents

Author: That's confusing: environment variables such as `${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}` and user replaced values such as `{APP_FQDN}` look similar.

The project should follow the usual conventions: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values

Author: After verification, the docs are consistently using `<...>` rather than `{...}` for user replaced values.

152 matches for `<`, all of them for user replaced values, except for 2 `cat << EOF`.

92 matches for `{`, most of them to define environment variables or in CLI commands. A few for user replaced values, mainly in the API reference. We have to fix that.

Closing the comment.

>     # signInPage: gitlab # <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    signInPage: gitlab # <3>
```

Author: done

+
<1> Optionally, when using a self-hosted Gitlab: uncomment, and enter your GitLab instance base URL, such as
`pass:[https://gitlab.company.com]`.
<2> Optionally, when using a custom redirect URI: uncomment, and enter the URL matching the *Redirect URI* registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, such as `pass:c,a,q[http://_<APP_FQDN>_/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame]`.
Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure the URL has no trailing `/` after 'frame'.

> <3> Optionally, to enable the Gitlab provider for sign-in: uncomment, and enter `gitlab`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> To enable the Gitlab provider for sign-in. This will make GitLab as a default sign-in provider for user logins. 
```

Author: I have some candid questions: 

Does `signInPage` define only the default provider?

How do you define a list of providers (let's say you want to enable GitHub and Gitlab)?

Author: done. eben more minimal.
